[THEME MUSIC]
>>This chapter is
called "Blue Pearls
from the Kingdom
of Light" because,
according to the Gnostic
systems, that's what we are.
Who we are and what is
perfected, according
to the Gnostics
and the alchemists,
as well-- they describe us as a
solar drop, an immortal pearl,
an indestructible
drop-- a seed atom
that is perceived by some
as a drop of molten gold
or, in fact, stardust.
It's called the Inner Light.
And what the Gnostics teach
and what the alchemists teach
is that this seed
atom-- this solar drop--
is who we truly
are, and it is what
grows the vehicles
necessary for incarnation.
Although the various Gnostic
cosmogonies differ slightly
in details, they all talk
about this realm of light
that we came from and that
our divine spark is presently
in this world of darkness
which doesn't necessarily
mean a bad place.
It's just that it's not
the realm of the light.
And so what we want to
recognize here is that within us
is-- for some of us, maybe--
an unknown part of ourself--
our true self.
I asked Mr. Dana
Augustine to come up
with this depiction
here of the true self--
of the Inner Light--
of the divine spark,
and this is what
we came up with.
And there are
other various names
for this transcendent self.
It's called our luminous
nature, the living
self, the luminous self.
It's also called mana as well.
And as you look at
these images, just
try to place that
within your own body.
Try to connect with that
divine spark within you.
See if you can feel it.
It's called the spirit in
us, the inner man, the spark,
the seed of light.
So you can see there
are numerous names
for this aspect of ourselves.
And it's no exaggeration
to say that the discovery
of this transcendent
inner self in man
is the supreme concern
of the Gnostics.
And their primary focus
was on the well-being
of this aspect of
ourselves and the awakening
of this aspect of ourselves.
This seed is thought of as
a kernel of immortality.
It's, sort of, an
egg or an embryo.
And it might even be
compared to the chrysalis
or the cocoon that
transforms into a butterfly.
A kernel is what is
innermost or hidden.
So when we look at-- well,
I just put a picture of me
up there, for example.
I mean, we think of ourselves
as this is all there is.
But what the Gnostics
wanted us to consider
is that within us is this divine
spark-- this seed-- that it
represents who we truly are.
In effect, our
bodies and our brains
are a device created by this
divine spark as a vehicle.
Our body, in this case, becomes
an information gathering
system-- an instrument,
if you will.
It's an earthly
transportation vehicle
for this aspect of ourselves.
And, as we've talked
earlier, our culture
tells us that this is all
there is-- that the flesh
and blood is what we want to
be concerned about in terms
of perfecting-- not so.
The Gnostics-- the
alchemists taught
that our body is a human,
biological, transformational
apparatus.
I call it a stargate.
And it is from our divine
spark's perspective
that we grow this body, and
we utilize it as a gateway
or, in fact, as a
stairway to heaven.
Luz is the Hebrew name
given for this divine spark.
Luz is also the Hebrew
word for almond.
When Jacob had his experience
with the ladder that
reached into the heavens, it
was at a place called Luz.
It also happens to be the
Spanish word for light.
The Maya said that this
almond-shaped graphic--
this vesica-shaped
graphic form--
represented the Milky Way.
They also said it relates to the
cosmic egg or the cosmic seed
from which springs all life.
So you can see that in
these various traditions
this idea of the
seed atom is present.
When we look at these
transfiguration images
of Jesus, we see him in
that almond-shaped gateway--
that vesica gateway-- that's
completely covered with stars
or composed of stars.
We would have to ask if that
is, in fact, the representation
of the seed atom.
And what Jesus is doing
is showing the great work
that we're all involved in which
is awakening that seed atom,
and perfecting it, and
utilizing it as a gateway
to travel between realms.
You see this at
Chartres Cathedral
where Jesus is in the vesica.
Well, now what we
know is that that
is a actual symbol
for our divine
spark-- our divine particle.
Same thing here with this
transfiguration image--
we see the exact same
vesica-shaped symbol.
This is a Kabbalistic
depiction of the crucifixion--
very important because we have
the traditional crucifixion
here.
But then we have the
esoteric version of it
here with each point on his
body corresponding to one
of the branches on
the tree of life.
And, ultimately, when
we learn to activate
that inner tree of life, it
opens up that gateway for us
to open into other dimensions.
The Egyptians called it
the field of the blessed
or the realm of the blessed.
So quick meditation--
sitting with your eyes
closed, if you like.
Let's take a deep breath.
And just for a moment
imagine that your body
is made of translucent material
and see inside your body.
Locate your divine spark.
Now, look into the future
and see your body change.
And notice that your divine
spark remains the same.
See your divine spark
glowing from within.
Feel it.
Connect with it.
Now go many, many
years into the future
and see your body change, and
see that your divine spark
remains the same.
Now, open an almond-shaped
or vesica-shaped doorway
around your body and
notice your divine spark.
And now, whenever you're
ready, open your eyes
and notice the divine spark
within the person beside you.
Very simple meditation
but the idea
is just to connect with that
divine spark and recognize
that we look at the
flesh and the cover here,
but we don't look to
what's on the inside.
And that is what
we all truly share,
in addition to our humanity, is
that we are all divine sparks
that came here from elsewhere.
And what we're learning to
do is to activate this body
so that we can continue.
That's what's called the
heart craft by the alchemists.
They believed it all took
place inside the heart.
Key quote here comes
from William Blake
who said that "man
is all imagination.
The eternal body of
man is the imagination,
that is, God himself."
Remember, we talked earlier
about the light body
as being made of
supramental substance.
That's a really key
point here that Blake
is making-- is that
everything is imagination.
And the work that
we're perfecting
or the work that we're doing is
reflecting on our imagination--
ultimately, using the
energy of the heart
in order to transmute
our body into light.
This is Jacob, once again,
who's asleep on the stone.
And he falls into
a dream-- imagines
that he sees a ladder
reaching into the heavens.
He scales that ladder
going through the sun
to a higher fire place,
comes back around,
and recognizes that he's
not in the heavenly world.
What Jacob learned-- and he
became one of the earliest
perfected humans-- is the
power of the imagination
and the power of
the heart together.
I often will cite this
example as-- to me--
as the lesson of earth life.
This is why we are all here.
This is what we are
all here to learn.
This looks like a simple
three-dimensional cube.
But what it really
is is 12 lines
that are projected onto the
screen that are brought to life
in your imagination as a cube.
And the idea here is that if
this three-dimensional cube is
12 lines that are
projected on a screen
and brought to life in
our imagination, then
there's a good possibility
that this remote control is
something different than
it first appears to be.
In fact, it's a
collection of plastic.
There's some ink.
There's some metal here--
all comes together--
feels like it's solid.
I click it, and I can go back
and forth between images.
Now, what a physics
teacher would tell us
this really is is
energy in motion.
It's atoms.
It's molecules
that's all brought
to life in our imagination.
What's important about this
cube is that if this is true--
and I believe this is
true-- this cube shows us
that we always have a choice in
how we're going to view things
out here because we can look at
this cube from one perspective,
and it looks like
we're looking into it.
But now, if we shift
our perspective,
it looks like we're
looking down into the cube
and a completely
different box appears.
Can you all make
it shift or jump?
Sometimes it shifts and
jumps uncontrollably,
but the idea is we can
control this with our choice.
The reason I say that this
is the lesson of earth life
is because every instant in our
life, every encounter we have,
is brought to life
in our imagination
just like this cube.
And in every encounter,
every moment of our life,
we have a choice
about what we're
going to do in that situation.
We can either put fear
into the situation,
or we can put love
into the situation.
That's it.
Those are the two
choices that we have.
Based upon your choice, that
determines your experience here
on Earth.
Universal law, in
fact, says what
we put out is what we get back.
Sounds very simple
but, again, I think
this is the whole
lesson of earth life.
Why are we here?
We are here to learn to
control our emotions.
control our imagination.
Because the idea is that if we
continue to be beings of fear--
I think there are higher
beings in our universe
that want to keep us, kind of,
contained on this prison planet
so long as we're
basically out of control
because they don't want fear
out in the rest of the universe.
What they're interested
in is what we're
really interested in here-- is
to flip our consciousness here
out of fear into love.
And that's why our time is so
important right now because you
can take out the old
term fear down here
and put in the word terror.
You can take out the
word love up here
and put in the word tara.
It's flip side.
Tara is the Buddhist word for
compassion and enlightenment.
I like to joke that when the
present administration launched
the war on terror, they
started proclaiming that we're
winning the war on tara.
And I would just have to listen.
What are you saying?
And the president would say,
we're winning the war on tara.
You know, he's trying to sound
like John Wayne or something
and just never really
enunciated his words properly.
Because my point is
that if he meant to say
we're winning the war on
terror, he should properly
pronounce that word.
Because when he's saying
we're winning the war on tara.
It sounds like the war is on
compassion and enlightenment
which is pretty scary.
Some people think that's
actually what it is.
We're winning the war on terror.
Hopefully, we are overcoming
terror in our world.
But the problem is, you can't
fight terror with more terror.
It doesn't work.
It's totally illogical.
We're going to spend-- we've
spent a trillion dollars
already fighting a war on
terror-- a trillion dollars.
Imagine if we had taken
that same trillion dollars--
that's with a T--
and invested it
in compassionate and
enlightening producing
technologies,
concepts, programs.
Our world would be a
completely different place.
And that's what we're
confronted with right here.
The Hopi tell us that only
love can exist in our hearts
during this time as we
approach the balance.
Because if we're not in
love or in a love zone,
there's a recycling
program that's awaiting us,
and it could be
imminent as well.
Not that they're going to
flush the entire planet
down the tubes, but
those who inhabit
the surface of the planet will
have to make different choices
if they expect to survive.
And so that's what we're
confronted with right here
in these very important
times-- is recognizing we all
have a choice in how we're going
to perceive things out here.
And it's time for us to
collectively get more
into the love zone rather than
the fear zone or the terror
zone.
The promise here is
that if we can do that,
our three-dimensional
cube now becomes
the center of a
fourth-dimensional hypercube.
If we can flip our
civilization into one
based on compassion
and enlightenment,
that's when the gateways open
into other dimensional realms.
Until then, I think we're
going to largely be closed off
from the rest of the
universe because they
don't want a bunch of fear
mongers out in the universe.
They don't want a
bunch of terrorists
running around the
universe wreaking havoc.
Richard Leviton writes about
stargates and earth portals.
He defines the land of
milk and honey in this way.
He says, "the land is
the fifth dimension
where the stargates
on earth are found.
The flowing that comes
from the promised land
is the rain of gold
and yellow light
from above when the
stargate is turned on.
And the milk is the
brightness of the stargate.
And the honey is the golden
yellow rain from above."
We're talking about other
dimensional substances here.
We're talking about in the light
body-- a supramental substance,
and becoming ultra
humans, and being
able to reach into
these other realms.
And the promise here is
that if we can do this,
that there are higher
energies that we can then
bring into our world that will
massively shift this place.
But in order to
do that, we've got
to give up the war on terror.
We just can't win
a war on terror.
Terror only creates more terror.
We have to begin to bring about
some enlightenment-based and
compassionate-based
technologies.
And it goes beyond
being green, too.
As I said earlier, green is
more than just recycling.
Green is truly a civilization
focused on other dimensions.
Green is a civilization focused
on regeneration, rebirth,
renewal.
It's even based
on reincarnation.
Christianity does not
accept reincarnation.
Henceforth, it's OK to trash
this place because you're not
coming back here.
But if you believe in
reincarnation and regeneration,
you're going to take
care of this place
because you know you're
coming back here.
And you'd rather be in
a garden rather than
a trash dump-- that's for sure.
This is how we ascend.
This is how we raise up.
This is how we elevate.
This is also how we break
free and, ultimately,
how we flash forth
out of this quagmire
that you might just define
Western civilization as.
And that's the challenge that
each of us have right now.
And it gets mighty
challenging when
you turn on the
news every night,
and all it's talking about
is destruction and terror.
And it's even a political
litmus test today.
If you don't believe in the war
on terror, you're a terrorist.
I learned that Sean Hannity.
I was watching him one night.
And he said, I'm going to
interview a high school
student who couldn't write
the word God in his yearbook.
What?
It sounded outrageous.
So I said, oh, I'll
listen to this.
So they bring this kid on.
Turns out it wasn't
the word God that he
wanted to put in his
high school yearbook.
It was the words Jesus Christ.
And right then I finally got it.
I was never raised in
a Christian household.
I didn't know that they
think Jesus Christ is God.
I didn't really get that
until watching this program.
And as Sean developed this
conversation with this kid,
he said, so you couldn't write
Jesus Christ in your yearbook.
Yeah, that's right.
Well, that's because terrorists
don't believe in God.
Well, so that means if you don't
believe that Jesus Christ is
God, you're a terrorist.
And further, what that means
is that the war on terror
is actually against you.
The war on terror
is not against some
ne'er-do-wells in Afghanistan
barely out of a cave.
I mean, that's a total joke.
The terrorists are people who
don't believe in Jesus Christ.
That's the ultimate definition
of the war on terror.
And that's what is coming
to our awareness right now--
is that it's being amplified.
This is one of the
points that Naomi Wolf
made the other day-- is that
the current administration has
redefined the war on terror
to not just be against those
in Afghanistan and Iraq.
The war on terror is a
global war on terror.
And terrorists are
anybody who does not
believe in Jesus Christ.
Welcome to the end of the world.